seperate routable network for different devices for different levels of trust

implemented by : 

router
firewall
switch




Network Design:

1. DMZ
192.168.1.0/24


DMZ - 
a network for devices that need port forwarding. that need inbound connections from the internet.

connected directly to the Internet.
this is vulnerable to attacks


we only have to enable inbound connections here, this can be done through firewall , and block the outgoing connections

so if attacker only compromises the inbound connection, attacker wont be able to make outbound connections and affect other devices on the network.

for software updates, we might temporarily enable outbound connections.
iptables, nat, routing ( having network not routable to other networks )





2. Trusted VLAN
192.168.2.0/24


We will use trusted VLAN to administer the untrusted devices.


enable connections from switch to firewall to DMZ, if we need to do administration on the DMZ device.

VLANS used to isolate networks
logical seperation of networks.

USE tags included in the packets, e.g VLAN1, VLAN2 


so they are on seperate vlans

so man in the middle attacks can only be performed on a specific vlan, the other vlan tag would not get affected.

so default gateway for each VLAN will be different.

attacker would have no idea what the ipranges were and these networks even existed.



We can even make it more secure by having 1 seperate VLAN for EACH device on the trusted vlan
this is because devices on trusted vlan might simply not need to communicate with each other.




3. Untrusted VLAN
192.168.3.0/24


the untrusted vlan would not be able to connect outbound to other devices and other networks.
if its a TV, it would simply have internet access ( not network access )

we can administer untrusted vlan from here.
of ports
firewall rules


Attacks And Exploits on VLANS :
VLAN Hopping
MAC Flooding
DTP
STP
HSRP


in kali linux there is a tool called Yersinia , this does VLAN Hopping

VLAN have been patched now


this is only virtual isolation

physical isolation is costly.
this will mitigate arp attacks




4. Untrusted Guest WiFi
192.168.4.0/24


5. Semi-Trusted WiFi
192.168.5.0/24

