we need to authenticate the receiver
we need to actually authenticate the PUBLIC KEY
to authenticate the public key itself - we need hash functions and digital signatures.

truecrypt - whole disk encryption technology.
quickhash

Tails OS.

Tails, or The Amnesic Incognito Live System, is a security-focused Debian-based Linux distribution aimed at preserving privacy and anonymity.[5] All its incoming and outgoing connections are forced to go through Tor,[6] and any non-anonymous connections are blocked. The system is designed to be booted as a live DVD or live USB, and will leave no digital footprint on the machine unless explicitly told to do so. The Tor Project has provided financial support for its development in the beginnings of the project.[7] As of the latest version, Tails comes with Secure Boot.

Bundled software
GNOME desktop
Networking
Tor with: Stream isolation, regular, obfs3 and obfs4 bridges support[14].
NetworkManager for easy network configuration
Tor Browser, a web browser based on Mozilla Firefox and modified to protect anonymity with:
Torbutton for anonymity and protection against JavaScript with all cookies treated as session cookies by default;
HTTPS Everywhere transparently enables SSL-encrypted connections to a great number of major websites
NoScript to have even more control over JavaScript
uBlock Origin (formerly Adblock Plus) to remove advertisements.
Note: Due to the fact that Tails includes uBlock Origin (compared to the normal Tor Browser Bundle), it could be subject to an attack to determine if the user is using Tails (since the userbase for Tails is less than the Tor Browser Bundle) by checking if the website is blocking advertising.[15] Although this can be avoided by disabling uBlock Origin.
Pidgin preconfigured with OTR for end-to-end encrypted instant messaging
OnionShare for anonymous File sharing
Thunderbird email client with Enigmail for OpenPGP support
Liferea feed aggregator
Aircrack-ng for Wi-Fi networks auditing
Electrum, an easy-to-use bitcoin client
Encryption and privacy software
LUKS and GNOME Disks to install and use encrypted storage devices, e.g. for USB sticks
GnuPG, the GNU implementation of OpenPGP for e-mail and data encryption and signing
Monkeysign, a tool for OpenPGP key signing and exchange
PWGen, a strong random password generator
Shamir's Secret Sharing using gfshare and ssss
GNOME virtual keyboard as a countermeasure against hardware keyloggers
MAT2 to anonymize metadata in files
KeePassXC password manager
macchanger for randomizing the device MAC address
GtkHash to calculate checksums
Keyringer, a command line tool to encrypt secrets shared through Git
Paperkey, a command line tool to back up OpenPGP secret keys on paper
Users can install any other software which is present in Debian GNU/Linux, either through APT (Tails provides three repositories) or dpkg.[16][17]

One may choose among a large number of languages and keyboard layouts when the system is booted.









but the website could be hacked . and the file could also be modified

this is why we use digital signatures instead.


ophcrack.
