debian website has a security advisories page, posted to debian-security-announce list.

in debian dpkg

dpkg is the software at the base of the package management system in the free operating system Debian and its numerous derivatives. dpkg is used to install, remove, and provide information about .deb packages. dpkg itself is a low-level tool


go to directory where *.deb file is located, this is the software package.

to use dpkg to install it, run 

dpkg -i filename.deb

this is manual installation.
this is low level package management tool



the high level package management tools are apt and aptitude.
advanced packaging tool

this is the command line front end for dpkg.

sudo apt-get install packagename




sudo aptitude install packagename


sudo apt-get update
used to synchronize package index files from the source.
apt and aptitude make use of sources.list file
package index locations are fetched from /etc/apt/sources.list file

these are sources for the package


sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get dist-upgrade
this will upgrade the distribution, as well as intelligently handle the changing versions of packages with the upgrade.
using conflict resolution system.
it may remove , upgrade, downgrade some packages.




sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade
install newest versions of all packages installed on system from sources in
sources.list

before a dist-upgrade or upgrade, we need to run
apt-get update.



AutomaticUpdates
AutomaticSecurityUpdates

1. use gnome update manager
2. use unattended-upgrades package
3. write your own cron scropt that calls aptitude
4. use cron-apt


install unattended-upgrades

sudo apt-get install unattended-upgrades

then edit 10periodic file

kdesudo gedit /etc/apt/apt.conf.d/10periodic

APT::Periodic::Update-Package-Lists "1";
APT::Periodic::Download-Upgradeable-Packages "1";
APT::Periodic::AutocleanInterval "7";
APT::Periodic::Unattended-Upgrade "1";








we also need to edit the 50unattended-upgrades file


kdesudo gedit /etc/apt/apt.conf.d/50unattended-upgrades




